DOC-561-SQL-Support-Changes (#511)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/queryworkers/sql/advanced-commands.md

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Advanced SQL Queries
---

Case-sensitivity is supported for attribute names using `"<attribute name>"`.
Case-sensitive collections names can be used as well.

> 

Reviewer: @dlozina-macrometa, please add headings before each example to help the user understand what it is about. This also builds a side menu on the right, which you will see if you do a local build. Headings help users scan and navigate documentation.

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Advanced SQL Queries
---

> ## Case Sensitivity

Reviewer: Two things:
- Always leave an empty line under headings.
- Do not stack headings. In this case, the H1 generated by the title will be stacked atop this H2. Add a short intro explaining what this topic is about above Case Sensitivity.

GROUP BY category.name
ORDER BY avg(film.length) DESC
```

## WHERE and EXISTS operators
`WHERE...EXISTS` operators also supported. It has two variants:
- `WHERE EXISTS`
- `WHERE NOT EXISTS`
Both variants can be used to check subquery result.

Example:

```sql
SELECT inventory.inventory_id
FROM inventory JOIN store ON (inventory.store_id = store.store_id)
JOIN film ON (inventory.film_id = film.film_id)
JOIN rental ON (inventory.inventory_id = rental.inventory_id)
WHERE film.title = 'Academy Dinosaur'
AND store.store_id = 1
AND NOT EXISTS (
SELECT *
FROM rental
WHERE rental.inventory_id = inventory.inventory_id
AND rental.return_date IS NULL)
```

## HAVING clause
`HAVING` clause is supported.

Example:

```sql
SELECT inventory.inventory_id
FROM inventory JOIN store ON (inventory.store_id = store.store_id)
JOIN film ON (inventory.film_id = film.film_id)
JOIN rental ON (inventory.inventory_id = rental.inventory_id)
WHERE film.title = 'Academy Dinosaur'
AND store.store_id = 1
AND NOT EXISTS (
SELECT *
FROM rental
WHERE rental.inventory_id = inventory.inventory_id
AND rental.return_date IS NULL)
```

:::note

> Users can't use  `HAVING` clause with subqueries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can't use  `HAVING` clause with subqueries.
```

Reviewer: Always write to "you," not "user."

:::

## SQL Functions
Macrometa SQL supports following functions:
- STDDEV
- STDDEV_POP
- STDDEV_SAMP
- VAR_POP
- VAR_SAMP
- MEDIAN
- PERCENTILE
- PERCENTILE_CONT

:::note

> Users can use mathematical functions such as degrees and logarithm with arbitrary base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can use mathematical functions such as degrees and logarithms with an arbitrary base.
```
